# Storage-Unit
NAS device based on the Raspberry Pi with support for Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant and other services


Storage devices today don’t do a whole lot and don't even have a lot of storage to begin with. The Storage Unit is different, from the beginning, the ultimate goal in mind was to have a single unit not only hold more than 4 TB, but it had to be accessible over the internet or over a local network. Over time, the original concept had evolved into something more. With Amazon Alexa and AirPlay, the device evolved into having smart speaker capabilities. With the shift into Raspberry Pi 3B from the Raspberry Pi Zero, more power and peripheral was given to the device. Then I gave the Storage Unit a 7 inch touch screen which means controls and apps like Google Chrome can be used directly as an interface to the device. Adding Google Assistant and livens up the system with choices

Originally this device was intended to be a display-less device but for the intention of dynamically configuring the system without the aid of a secondary device it became apparent to design around the focus of a touch screen. The offical 7-inch Touch Screen is offered by the offical Raspberry Pi foundation and connects via external 5V and DSP cables. The external 5V was connected using micro-USB (Type B) because the Raspberry Pi itself can't supply a stable 5V. With a display being added we have to redesign the enclosure to accomodate the new components. This presented the opprotunity to implement new ideas that the old enclosure did not have. Adding modulatrity became important because after printing out the enclosure, any newer changes could not be added to a finalized design. One way of going about this was to add a double sided plane in the center of the enclosure and to add a grid of holes so that any new component can be mounted or screwed in easily and can be rearranged. Initially, to power the speaker and microphones, a Class-D Audio amplifier that accepts a 3.5 mm input was used alongside a USB Microphone Dongle. However later on I discovered the Google AIY kit which came with an add-on that directly interfaced using the GPIO and provided mono out to a speaker and a seperate daughter board that housed two microphones. This became a more viable option because it meant that the device no longer needed to power a seperate component, one that required more than 9V. 

Because the primary purpose of this device was to be a NAS we needed to equip it with storage. Initially, I thought of using mSATA SSDs because of it's small form factor and speed. However efficient mSATA drives currently don't span higher than 1 TB and using two for 2 TB isn't quite enough for the scale of this device. Using standard SATA 3.5 or 2.5 inch drives requires adapters and seperate power inputs and would not fit the enclosure. Currently the solution being used is USB 3.0 Portable Drives. Since the Raspberry Pi only uses USB 2.0 we have to sacrifice the data rate and split the power and data so that we can externally supply enough current to power the entire drive. Since we are using SMB to map the device we don't need to worry too much about the loss of potential data rate with the USB spec downgrade because we are reliant of the protocol and network speed. (SMB 3.0 as of now has a maximum of around 160 mbps) which is a bottleneck if we used USB 3.0 (USB 3.0 as of now has a maximum of 640 mbps for transfer speeds) Two of these drives were used for a total of 8TB (4TB each) and is set up in a RAID0 configuration using software.



